README.md, before:

# Calculator
Scientific calculator written in C in which you can define your own constants and functions

## Setup guide
1. Clone repository.
2. If you want to use readline, download its development files (Ubuntu: ```sudo apt-get install libreadline-dev```). If you do not want to use it, change the first line of ```make.sh``` to ```use_readline=false```.
3. In root directory, run ```./make.sh [-d]``` to compile sources.

## How to use it
When starting the calculator normally, you can enter expressions and commands interactively. Passed arguments will be evaluated beforehand. You can pipe in contents which will be evaluated as if typed in, after that the calculator terminates and does not enter interactive mode.

### Syntax
* Just type in a mathematical expression to evaluate it.
* ```ans``` can be used to reference previous result.
* Two subexpressions next to each other without an infix operator will be multiplied (e.g. ```2a``` or ```(x-1)(y+1)```).
* You can define functions (and even overload them by arity) and constants (e.g. ```myFunc(x) = x^2```, ```myConst = 42```).
* When applying unary functions to a literal, you can omit parentheses (e.g. ```sin2```).
* Any line starting with ```'``` will be ignored (useful for comments in files to be loaded).
* You can use ```$``` to parse the following expression with maximal precedence, like in Haskell.

### Available commands
| Command                                     | Description                                         |
| ---                                         | ---                                                 |
| ```<func\|const> = <after>```               | Adds new function or constant.                      |
| ```table <expr> ; <from> ; <to> ; <step>``` | Prints table of values.                             |
| ```load <path>```                           | Loads file as if its content had been typed in.     |
| ```debug <expr>```                          | Visually prints abstract syntax tree of expression. |
| ```help```                                  | Lists all available commands and operators.         |
| ```clear```                                 | Clears all user-defined functions.                  |
| ```quit```                                  | Closes calculator.                                  |

### Infix operators
| Name      | Associativity | Precedence | Description          |
| ---       | ---           | ---        | ---                  |
| ```+```   | Both          | 2          | Addition             |
| ```-```   | Left          | 2          | Subtraction          |
| ```*```   | Both          | 3          | Multiplication       |
| ```/```   | Left          | 3          | Division             |
| ```^```   | Right         | 4          | Exponentiation       |
| ```C```   | Left          | 1          | Binomial coefficient |
| ```mod``` | Left          | 1          | Modulo operator      |

### Prefix operators
| Name    | Precedence | Description |
| ---     | ---        | ---         |
| ```+``` | 6          | Identity    |
| ```-``` | 6          | Negation    |

### Postfix operators
| Name    | Precedence | Description     |
| ---     | ---        | ---             |
| ```!``` | 5          | Factorial       |
| ```%``` | 5          | Division by 100 |

### Functions
| Name                 | Description                                    |
| ---                  | ---                                            |
| ```exp(x)```         | Natural exponential function                   |
| ```root(x, n)```     | nth root of x                                  |
| ```sqrt(x)```        | Square root                                    |
| ```log(x, n)```      | Logarithm to base n                            |
| ```ln(x)```          | Natural logarithm                              |
| ```ld(x)```          | Binary logarithm                               |
| ```lg(x)```          | Logarithm to base 10                           |
| ```sin(x)```         | Sine                                           |
| ```cos(x)```         | Cosine                                         |
| ```tan(x)```         | Tangent                                        |
| ```asin(x)```        | Inverse sine                                   |
| ```acos(x)```        | Inverse cosine                                 |
| ```atan(x)```        | Inverse tangens                                |
| ```sinh(x)```        | Hyperbolic sine                                |
| ```cosh(x)```        | Hyperbolic cosine                              |
| ```tanh(x)```        | Hyperbolic tangent                             |
| ```asinh(x)```       | Inverse hyperbolic sine                        |
| ```acosh(x)```       | Inverse hyperbolic cosine                      |
| ```atanh(x)```       | Inverse hyperbolic tangent                     |
| ```max(*)```         | Maximum                                        |
| ```min(*)```         | Minimum                                        |
| ```abs(x)```         | Absolute value                                 |
| ```ceil(x)```        | Round up to nearest integer                    |
| ```floor(x)```       | Round down to nearest integer                  |
| ```round(x)```       | Round to nearest integer                       |
| ```trunc(x)```       | Round towards 0 to nearest integer             |
| ```frac(x)```        | Fractional part of x                           |
| ```sgn(x)```         | Sign of x (-1, 0, 1)                           |
| ```sum(*)```         | Sum of all operands                            |
| ```prod(*)```        | Product of all operands                        |
| ```avg(*)```         | Arithmetic mean of all operands                |
| ```rand(min, max)``` | Random integer between min and max (exclusive) |
| ```gamma(x)```       | Gamma function                                 |
| ```fib(n)```         | Fibonacci sequence                             |

Note:
* ```*``` is used to denote arbitrary number of operands
* Where operands are expected to be integer-valued, they will be truncated

### Constants
| Name         | Value         | Description                          |
| ---          | ---           | ---                                  |
| ```pi```     | 3.14159265359 | Archimedes' constant                 |
| ```e```      | 2.71828182846 | Euler's number                       |
| ```phi```    | 1.61803398874 | Golden ratio                         |
| ```clight``` | 299792458     | Speed of light [m/s]                 |
| ```csound``` | 343.2         | Speed of sound in air at 20 °C [m/s] |

Commit message:

Added optional fold to table command

README.md, after:

# Calculator
Scientific calculator written in C in which you can define your own constants and functions

## Setup guide
1. Clone repository.
2. If you want to use readline, download its development files (Ubuntu: ```sudo apt-get install libreadline-dev```). If you do not want to use it, change the first line of ```make.sh``` to ```use_readline=false```.
3. In root directory, run ```./make.sh [-d]``` to compile sources.

## How to use it
When starting the calculator normally, you can enter expressions and commands interactively. Passed arguments will be evaluated beforehand. You can pipe in contents which will be evaluated as if typed in, after that the calculator terminates and does not enter interactive mode.

### Syntax
* Just type in a mathematical expression to evaluate it.
* ```ans``` can be used to reference previous result.
* Two subexpressions next to each other without an infix operator will be multiplied (e.g. ```2a``` or ```(x-1)(y+1)```).
* You can define functions (and even overload them by arity) and constants (e.g. ```myFunc(x) = x^2```, ```myConst = 42```).
* When applying unary functions to a literal, you can omit parentheses (e.g. ```sin2```).
* Any line starting with ```'``` will be ignored (useful for comments in files to be loaded).
* You can use ```$``` to parse the following expression with maximal precedence, like in Haskell.

### Available commands
| Command                                     | Description                                         |
| ---                                         | ---                                                 |
| ```<func\|const> = <after>```               | Adds new function or constant.                      |
| ```table <expr> ; <from> ; <to> ; <step> [fold <expr> ; <init>]``` | Prints table of values and optionally folds them. In fold expression, ```x``` is replaced with the previous value (init in first step), ```y``` is replaced with the current value. Result of fold is stored in ```ans```.                             |
| ```load <path>```                           | Loads file as if its content had been typed in.     |
| ```debug <expr>```                          | Visually prints abstract syntax tree of expression. |
| ```help```                                  | Lists all available commands and operators.         |
| ```clear```                                 | Clears all user-defined functions.                  |
| ```quit```                                  | Closes calculator.                                  |

### Infix operators
| Name      | Associativity | Precedence | Description          |
| ---       | ---           | ---        | ---                  |
| ```+```   | Both          | 2          | Addition             |
| ```-```   | Left          | 2          | Subtraction          |
| ```*```   | Both          | 3          | Multiplication       |
| ```/```   | Left          | 3          | Division             |
| ```^```   | Right         | 4          | Exponentiation       |
| ```C```   | Left          | 1          | Binomial coefficient |
| ```mod``` | Left          | 1          | Modulo operator      |

### Prefix operators
| Name    | Precedence | Description |
| ---     | ---        | ---         |
| ```+``` | 6          | Identity    |
| ```-``` | 6          | Negation    |

### Postfix operators
| Name    | Precedence | Description     |
| ---     | ---        | ---             |
| ```!``` | 5          | Factorial       |
| ```%``` | 5          | Division by 100 |

### Functions
| Name                 | Description                                    |
| ---                  | ---                                            |
| ```exp(x)```         | Natural exponential function                   |
| ```root(x, n)```     | nth root of x                                  |
| ```sqrt(x)```        | Square root                                    |
| ```log(x, n)```      | Logarithm to base n                            |
| ```ln(x)```          | Natural logarithm                              |
| ```ld(x)```          | Binary logarithm                               |
| ```lg(x)```          | Logarithm to base 10                           |
| ```sin(x)```         | Sine                                           |
| ```cos(x)```         | Cosine                                         |
| ```tan(x)```         | Tangent                                        |
| ```asin(x)```        | Inverse sine                                   |
| ```acos(x)```        | Inverse cosine                                 |
| ```atan(x)```        | Inverse tangens                                |
| ```sinh(x)```        | Hyperbolic sine                                |
| ```cosh(x)```        | Hyperbolic cosine                              |
| ```tanh(x)```        | Hyperbolic tangent                             |
| ```asinh(x)```       | Inverse hyperbolic sine                        |
| ```acosh(x)```       | Inverse hyperbolic cosine                      |
| ```atanh(x)```       | Inverse hyperbolic tangent                     |
| ```max(*)```         | Maximum                                        |
| ```min(*)```         | Minimum                                        |
| ```abs(x)```         | Absolute value                                 |
| ```ceil(x)```        | Round up to nearest integer                    |
| ```floor(x)```       | Round down to nearest integer                  |
| ```round(x)```       | Round to nearest integer                       |
| ```trunc(x)```       | Round towards 0 to nearest integer             |
| ```frac(x)```        | Fractional part of x                           |
| ```sgn(x)```         | Sign of x (-1, 0, 1)                           |
| ```sum(*)```         | Sum of all operands                            |
| ```prod(*)```        | Product of all operands                        |
| ```avg(*)```         | Arithmetic mean of all operands                |
| ```sel(n, *)```      | Selects nth argument (zero-indexed)            |
| ```rand(min, max)``` | Random integer between min and max (exclusive) |
| ```gamma(x)```       | Gamma function                                 |
| ```fib(n)```         | Fibonacci sequence                             |

Note:
* ```*``` is used to denote arbitrary number of operands
* Where operands are expected to be integer-valued, they will be truncated
* A function will return ```NaN``` on malformed arguments

### Constants
| Name         | Value         | Description                          |
| ---          | ---           | ---                                  |
| ```pi```     | 3.14159265359 | Archimedes' constant                 |
| ```e```      | 2.71828182846 | Euler's number                       |
| ```phi```    | 1.61803398874 | Golden ratio                         |
| ```clight``` | 299792458     | Speed of light [m/s]                 |
| ```csound``` | 343.2         | Speed of sound in air at 20 °C [m/s] |
